>> James Halliday: Okay so we already
saw the echo command a little bit.
This is gonna be important now for piping,
>> James Halliday: And redirects.
So one of the first things that we can
experiment with is if we have a command,
it's gonna print by default
to standard output.
So you'll be able to see it and
read it on your terminal.
So if I have a command,
just say a simple echo commands,
echo hello there,
it's gonna print a message.
If I wanna save that output to a file,
I can use a greater than.
And then specify a file name where
that output is going to be saved.
So I'll call it hello.txt.
>> James Halliday: Now I don't see
the output on my standard out anymore.
But if I cat out
the contents of that file,
then the file hello.txt contains
the text 'hello there'.
That's an example of output redirect.
So this works for any kind of command.
So, for example,
we can use the output of the ls command.
We can write it to a file called list.txt.
You might notice that sometimes the output
that you see on the screen, like for
the ls command, is gonna be different
than the output that you see in the file.
This is because sometimes the programs
know whether they're on
it's called a TTY or not.
Which means whether they're
being run interactively or
whether they're being run in
this kind of scripted way.
So, commands like ls, when they're being
run not on a TTY in this scripted fashion
by using redirects or pipes, will
output the same as if you'd done ls -1.
In this case which just prints
out the files line by line.
Cuz that's generally more useful for
programs to read than
something with columns in it.
So < redirects standard out to a file.
>> James Halliday: There's also another
kind of redirect which does appending.
So if you put two greater
thans side by side, then
it will add the standard out from whatever
you're piping in to the end of the file.
So if I want to add another
message to my hello.txt,
which, I guess,
can turn into 90s style CGI guest book.
I can make another message.
So I'll say, whatever and
double greater than, then hello.txt.
Now if I cat hello.txt, I see the original
message and then the new message.
>> James Halliday: And
a third message, there we go.
So now, we can, sort of,
accumulate contents.
So maybe if you have a little program
that you wanna run periodically, and
you wanna log the contents of, like,
whatever that program outputs to
a log file, the append
redirectives is handy to do that.
>> Speaker 2: How about to
the beginning of the file, I just tried
appending to the beginning with a single
greater than just over on everything.
>> James Halliday: Right, well, so,
a single greater than overwrites the file.
If you wanna append to the beginning,
it's a little bit complicated.
You'd have to compose some
different kinds of operations.
I guess if I wanted to append, I would
probably use a subshell to do that.
So put my message at the beginning and
then do cat hello.txt.
And then overwrite to a different
file that's not called hello.txt.
And then move hello.txt
to be hello.txt.
That's how I would do pre-pending,
it's more complicated.
>> Speaker 2: So what do you mean to say?
So I won't do that.
[LAUGH]
>> James Halliday: You can do that, but
maybe once we get to these concepts,
you can do it.
Just, make sure it works here.
There we go, at the beginning.
Yeah, so putting stuff at
the beginning of the file,
a lot harder than putting
it at the end of the file.
This also has to do with how,
>> James Halliday: The operating
system works,
it's generally cheaper to put things at
the end of a file than at the beginning.
Because if you put
something in the beginning,
you have to smush everything else down.
You have to push it down and
reallocate a new file.
But if you put things at the end,
the operating system will just
allocate a new block or
write to the end of an existing block.
Because things are done in blocks.
Sort of a linked structure
internally is what's going on.
Okay, so those are the two
kinds of output redirects.
Greater than and
double greater than to append.
There's also a kind of input redirect,
which is a less than, yeah.
So the input redirect takes
the contents of a file and
sort of types it into another file,
as if you'd typed in the contents of
that file on a keyboard for yourself.
>> James Halliday: So, if,
for example, we wanna, so
suppose that the wc commands didn't
have an option to pass in a file name.
So imagine if we couldn't do
things like wc -c hello.txt.
We can only do things like wc- c and
it would read for standard in.
So if we have programs like that you can
use an input reader direct with less than.
And you can give the name of the file.
And then it will write
the contents of the file
hello.txt into the standard
input of the wc command.
In this case we know that
hello.txt is 52 bytes.
If you have these kind of commands where
they maybe don't know how to read files,
but they know how to
read from standard in,
you can still copy files
into the standard in.